[[Use_Cases]] == Use Case Summary

=== Introduction ELFIE design work was directed by a number of use cases with
extensive need for linked environmental data. These use cases are either
hurdles to systems they maintain or would be nice additions to systems they
rely on as users. Many of these use cases were described and used for
discussion and vetting of ideas only, others were taken further with
implementation of example encoded linked data documents and client code to
visualize data involved in the use case.

The full suite of use cases considered durring the design phase of the
project are described below. Each use cases takes the form of a simple
description of who or what system has an interest in what related datasets.
Specific datasets are listed to clarify the scope and provide a starting
point for technical design work. Use cases that were implemented as
demonstrations of the design outcomes are described in more detail to include
notional diagrams of how datasets involved link to each other, a thorough
description of the use case, and an example application that speaks to and/or
satisfies the needs of the use case.

=== Use Cases Considered in Design Process

**River network linked data to address hydrologic drought and ecology**::
Water consumers and decision makers are interested in potential ecological
and economic impacts of additional water use.

*Relevant datasets*::: * River network * Incremental catchments * Low flow
and temperature sensitive species distributions * Monitoring locations * Low
flow and temperature forecasts * Ecological stream classification *
Historical streamflow characteristics * Flow and temperature regulations

**Stream water quality and quantity monitoring**:: Water consumers are
interested in ambient stream characteristics and water quality impacts of
water allocation decisions.

*Relevant datasets*::: * River network * Monitoring locations * Water quality
data * Water quantity data * Water allocation information * Diversions and
discharges

**Flood risks and impacts**:: A person in a flood-impacted area needs
information about the risks to them for a forecast or ongoing flood event.

*Relevant datasets*::: * River network * Stream flow and stage forecasts *
Topography * Flood depth and extent data for event * Flood plain map(s) *
Flood control assets * Impacted transportation assets * At risk critical
infrastructure

**Water quality impacts monitoring of mining activities**:: A water quality
analyst needs to know what data is available to assess baseline and impacted
conditions of a waterbody impacted by mine-related runoff.

*Relevant datasets*::: * River network * On network waterbodies * Realtime
water quality monitoring locations and data * Water quality sampling
locations and data * Mine locations * Snowpack and runoff * River flow
monitoring locations and data

**Cross border monitoring index**:: An analyst working in a cross border
watershed or aquifer needs information characterizing their study region from
another country of jurisdiction.

*Relevant datasets*::: * River network data * Catchment data * Aquifer data *
Streamflow monitoring locations and data * Aquifer monitoring wells and data

**Water budget summary**:: A person interested in a basic summary of the
water budget for a given watershed needs information about the watershed and
its water budget data.

*Relevant datasets*::: * Watershed boundary * Watershed outlet location *
Water budget component data * Links to additional information

**Watershed data index**:: A person with a stake in the conditions of a given
watershed needs an index of all water-quality related information about the
watershed.

*Relevant datasets*::: * Impaired (e.g. polluted or degraded) waters *
Drinking water quality violation reports * Facilities with discharge permits
* Water quality infrastructure investments * Watershed characteristics *
Modeled data such as nutrient concentrations

**Flood monitoring at bridges**:: A jurisdiction with significant
infrastructure near or over waterways needs a system to link waterways,
bridges, and various observations for situational awareness and model
calibration/validation.

*Relevant datasets*::: * River network * Bridge inventory * Monitoring
stations and data * Locations where model results are available

**Flood Impact Study**:: A hydrologist conducting a flood impact study needs
to collect relevant information from various agencies.

*Relevant datasets*::: * River network * Watershed boundaries * Hydrologic
locations of vulnerable infrastructure * Hydrologic locations of monitoring
stations and data * Meteorological monitoring stations and data * Elevation
data * Water table / aquifer data * Rainfall forecast

**Surface water impacted groundwater level forecasting**:: A groundwater
extraction modeler needs information about surface water that replenishes
groundwater so they can understand and forecast groundwater availability.

*Relevant datasets*::: * Groundwater wells and level data * Surface water
monitoring sites and flow data * Meteorological monitoring sites and
observations * Output predictions at groundwater prediction wells

=== Use Cases Implemented as Demonstrations of Outcomes

**Water budget summary** This use case provides a person interested in a
basic summary of the water budget for a given watershed information about a
collection of watersheds and their water budget data. It links together
various hydrographic representations of each watershed as well as
observational water budget data and related web resources.

As shown in the <<img_uswb_data>>, the watershed feature is linked to various
representations of it. This follows the HY_Features concept of a catchment as
an _unrealized_ feature that is related to various realization features,
there is no canonical representation of the watershed its self.

[#img_uswb_data,reftext='{figure-caption} {counter:figure-num}'] .Notional
diagram of relationships between data in the water budget summary use case.
image::images/uswb.png[width=800,align="center"]

Additional details about the water budget summary use case implementation is
available on the
https://opengeospatial.github.io/ELFIE/demo/uswb[demonstration ELFIE web
page.]

**Watershed data index** This use case is meant to demonstrate the use of
HY_Features to link a catchment (12 digit hydrologic unit code (HUC12)
watershed in this case) to the data representing it as well as the monitoring
network associated with it. It serves as a general demonstration that could
be used for a wide array of linked watershed information use cases.

[#img_huc12obs_data,reftext='{figure-caption} {counter:figure-num}']
.Notional diagram of relationships between data in the watershed data index
use case. image::images/uswb.png[width=800,align="center"]

Additional details about the water budget summary use case implementation is
available on the
https://opengeospatial.github.io/ELFIE/demo/huc12obs[demonstration ELFIE web
page.]

**Flood risks and impacts** This use case provides a decision maker needing
to respond to flooded transportation infrastructure the information they need
to understand the impacted assets and flooded roads for a forecast flood.
Under this use case, a flood forecasting system would be able to discover
vulnerable infrastructure and assets published by local juridictions as
linked data and publish flood forecasts that include potentially impacted
features in forecast information products.

[#img_floodcast_data,reftext='{figure-caption} {counter:figure-num}']
.Notional diagram of data in the floodcast use case.
image::images/floodcast.png[width=800,align="center"]

**Surface water impacted groundwater level forecasting** This use case tests
the ability of established data models to link surfacewater and groundwater
features and observations for applications like recharge estimation from
rivers or water supply source selection. The implemented solution is a
collection of rich linked data documents showing how features, observations,
and related data can be encoded in JSON-LD.
